http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/rel/census/2011-census-analysis/language-in-england-and-wales-2011/rpt---language-in-england-and-wales--2011.html
Skip to main content

/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04

[ ![Office for National Statistics](https://cdn.ons.gov.uk/assets/images/ons-
logo/v2/ons-logo.svg)
![](/chartimage?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/47097f14&width=&hideSource=true)

#####  Source: Census - Office for National Statistics

######  Notes:

  1. ‘All Other Chinese’ is an aggregate of Chinese languages and excludes those that wrote in Mandarin Chinese and Cantonese Chinese 

#####  Download this chart

[ Image
](/chartimage?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/47097f14)
[ .csv
](/generator?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/47097f14&format=csv
"Download as csv") [ .xls
](/generator?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/47097f14&format=xls
"Download as xls")

After Polish the next most common main languages were from South Asia, Panjabi
(273,000 people) and Urdu (269,000) each with 0.5 per cent and Bengali (with
Sylheti and Chatgaya, 221,000) and Gujarati (213,000) each with 0.4 per cent.
This was followed by Arabic (159,000) and French (147,000) each with 0.3 per
cent.

###  Notes for main language in England and Wales

  1. English or Welsh in Wales 

Back to table of contents

##  4\.  Main language across English regions and Wales

Across the English regions, the highest percentage of people who reported
English as their main language was in the North East at 97.2 per cent, closely
followed by the South West at 96.5 per cent. In Wales 97.1 per cent of people
spoke English or Welsh as their main language  1

####  Figure 2: Main language by English region and Wales, 2011

![](/chartimage?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/3d296fd4&width=&hideSource=true)

#####  Source: Census - Office for National Statistics

######  Notes:

  1. English or Welsh in Wales 

#####  Download this chart

[ Image
](/chartimage?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/3d296fd4)
[ .csv
](/generator?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/3d296fd4&format=csv
"Download as csv") [ .xls
](/generator?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/3d296fd4&format=xls
"Download as xls")

London had the lowest proportion of people who reported their main language as
English with 77.9 per cent (just over 6 million people).

London had the highest proportion of usual residents born outside the UK and
non- UK nationals ( [ International Migrants in England and Wales 2011
](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/rel/census/2011-census/key-statistics-for-local-
authorities-in-england-and-wales/rpt-international-migrants.html "RPT
International Migrants") ) .London is also the most ethnically diverse ( [
Ethnicity and National Identity in England and Wales 2011
](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/rel/census/2011-census/key-statistics-for-local-
authorities-in-england-and-wales/rpt-ethnicity.html "RPT ethnicity") ) and has
the highest proportion of people affiliated with a religion other than
Christian ( [ Religion in England and Wales 2011
](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/rel/census/2011-census/key-statistics-for-local-
authorities-in-england-and-wales/rpt-religion.html "RPT Religion") ).

Polish was the most common reported ‘Other’ main language in London with 1.9
per cent (148,000) of people reporting this as their main language. Bengali
(with Sylheti and Chatgaya) and Gujarati followed with 1.5 per cent (114,000)
and 1.3 per cent (102,000) respectively.

###  Notes for main language across English regions and Wales

  1. [ Further details of Welsh language ](http://wales.gov.uk/topics/statistics/headlines/population2012/121211/?lang=en "Welsh Government: First results on the Welsh language.")

Back to table of contents

##  5\.  Main language by local authority

In nearly two thirds of all local authorities in England and Wales 95 per cent
of the population or over reported English  1  as a main language. Redcar and
Cleveland in the North East had the highest proportion of people reporting
English as their main language with 99.3 per cent, this area was also one of
the least ethnically diverse ( [ Ethnicity and National Identity in England
and Wales 2011 ](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/rel/census/2011-census/key-
statistics-for-local-authorities-in-england-and-wales/rpt-ethnicity.html "RPT
Ethnicity") ). North East Derbyshire (East Midlands), Stafforshire Moorlands
(West Midlands), Caerphilly (Wales), Knowsley (North West) and South
Staffordshire (West Midlands) closely followed at 99.1 per cent.

The London borough of Newham had the lowest proportion of people reporting
their main language as English at 58.6 per cent. Other London boroughs, Brent
(62.8 per cent), Tower Hamlets (65.8 per cent), Ealing (66.1 per cent) and
Westminster (69.2 per cent), also had some of the lowest proportions where
English was the main language. These areas were also shown to be some of the
most ethnically diverse.

A number of London boroughs had some of the highest reported ‘Other’ main
languages in England and Wales. Kensington and Chelsea had some of the highest
proportions of people with some of the European languages including French
(4.9 per cent), Spanish (2.7 per cent) and Italian (2.4 per cent). Tower
Hamlets had the highest proportion of Bengali (with Sylheti and Chatgaya) at
18 per cent.

Outside London, areas such as Slough had the highest proportion of those with
Panjabi (6.2 per cent) as a main language. Leicester had the highest
proportion of those with Gujarati (11.5 per cent) and Boston had the highest
proportion of Lithuanian (2.8 per cent).

Thanet saw the highest percentage of all people whose main language was a sign
language at 0.2 per cent. There are different types of sign language, and
Thanet also had the highest proportion for British Sign Language at 0.1 per
cent.

In Wales, those reporting English or Welsh as their main language was highest
in Caerphilly with 99.1 per cent and lowest in Cardiff at 91.7 per cent.

####  Map 1: Language in England and Wales, 2011

[ ![Map 1: Language in England and Wales,
2011](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/resources/languagemap_tcm77-302152.png)
](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/resources/languagemap_tcm77-302152.png)

#####  Source: Census - Office for National Statistics

###  Notes for main language by local authority

  1. English or Welsh in Wales 

Back to table of contents

##  6\.  Concentration of languages across local authorities

Some ‘Other’ main languages were found to be concentrated in different local
authorities. Cornish had the highest level of concentration. Just over 8 in 10
(500) people who reported Cornish as their main language lived in Cornwall.
Three quarters (3,000) of those who reported Yiddish as their main language
lived in the London borough of Hackney and half (10,800) of those who reported
Pakistani Pahari (with Mirpuri and Potwari) lived in Birmingham. Around a
quarter (1,500) of those who reported Hebrew resided in Barnet and almost a
quarter (300) of those who reported Krio resided in Southwark. Of those who
reported Oceanic/Australian (any) as a main language, almost 1 in 5 (300)
lived in Wiltshire.

####  Table 1: Concentration of different languages by local authority, 2011

|  Local Authority  |  England and Wales  
---|---|---  
Language  |  Name  |  Number  |  Percentage  |  Number  
Cornish  |  Cornwall  |  500  |  83.3  |  600  
Yiddish  |  Hackney  |  3,000  |  75.1  |  4,000  
Pakistani Pahari (with Mirpuri and potwari  |  Birmingham  |  10,800  |  49.5
|  21,900  
Hebrew  |  Barnet  |  1,500  |  24.8  |  6,200  
Krio  |  Southwark  |  300  |  23.9  |  1,200  
Bengali (with Sylheti and Chatgaya)  |  Tower Hamlets  |  43,500  |  19.7  |
221,400  
Turkish  |  Enfield  |  18,400  |  18.5  |  99,400  
Korean  |  Kingston Upon Thames  |  2,600  |  17.2  |  15,200  
Gujarati  |  Leicester  |  36,300  |  17.1  |  213,100  
Oceanic/Australian language (any)  |  Wiltshire  |  300  |  16.7  |  1,800  
Source: Office for National Statistics  
View table

#####  Download this table

[ .xls
](/file?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/67d4a28c.xls
"Download as xls")

Back to table of contents

##  7\.  Welsh language

In the 2011 Census form the main language question in Wales asked respondents
whether they spoke English or Welsh as their main language, however, it did
not allow them to record which of English or Welsh was their main language.

A question on Welsh language skills was also asked on the 2011 Census form in
Wales. The question asked was 'Can you understand, speak, read or write
Welsh?' - answered by ticking one or more of five boxes (one for each category
and one for 'None of these') in any combination.

In 2011, 19 per cent of people aged three and over in Wales were able to speak
Welsh (562,000). 14.6 per cent of the population in Wales were able to speak,
read and write Welsh. Nearly three quarters of the population in Wales had no
Welsh language skills.

Back to table of contents

##  8\.  Proficiency in English

People who reported a main language other than English  1  were asked how well
they spoke English. While 7.7 per cent of the population (4.2 million) of
England and Wales had a main language other than English, only 1.3 per cent
(726,000) of the population reported that they could not speak English well
and 0.3 per cent (138,000) reported that they could not speak English at all
2  . The proportions were highest in London with nearly 4.1 per cent of the
population (320,000 people) unable to speak English well or not at all
followed by 2.0 per cent in the West Midlands. The North East had the lowest
proportion of people who were unable to speak English well or not at all.

####  Figure 3: Proficiency in English, English regions and Wales, 2011

![](/chartimage?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/24dfc921&width=&hideSource=true)

#####  Source: Census - Office for National Statistics

#####  Download this chart

[ Image
](/chartimage?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/24dfc921)
[ .csv
](/generator?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/24dfc921&format=csv
"Download as csv") [ .xls
](/generator?uri=/peoplepopulationandcommunity/culturalidentity/language/articles/languageinenglandandwales/2013-03-04/24dfc921&format=xls
"Download as xls")

###  Notes for proficiency in English

  1. English or Welsh in Wales 
  2. English language proficiency has been calculated as a percentage of the population aged three and over. 

Back to table of contents

##  9\.  Proficiency in English by local authority

In nine out of ten local authorities the proportion of the population who were
unable to speak English well or not all was less than 3 per cent. The London
Boroughs had high proportions of people who ‘cannot speak English well’ or
‘not at all’. Newham had the highest proportion of those who ‘cannot speak
English well’ and ‘not at all’ (8.7 per cent)1. Brent and Tower Hamlets
closely followed, each with 8.0 per cent. Outside of London, Leicester had the
highest proportion of people who could ‘not speak English well’ or ‘not at
all’ (7.5 per cent).

####  Map 2: English not spoken well and not at all by local or unitary
authority, 2011

[ ![Map 2: English not spoken well and not at all by local or unitary
authority,
2011](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/resources/englishproficiencyew2011smallv201_tcm77-302153.png)
](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/resources/englishproficiencyew2011smallv201_tcm77-302153.png)

#####  Source: Census - Office for National Statistics

###  Notes for proficiency in English by local authority

  1. English language proficiency has been calculated as a percentage of the population aged three and over. 

Back to table of contents

##  10\.  Measuring language

A question on main language and proficiency in speaking English was asked for
the first time in the 2011 census. The question captured information through a
tick-box on those who reported their main language as English (or English or
Welsh in Wales). A write-in option captured languages other than English, this
included Sign Languages. Those that selected the option for another language
were asked a follow-up question on proficiency of English spoken. Respondents
were asked how well they could speak English and could select one of the four
tick boxes, ‘How well can you speak English?’ ‘very well’, ‘well’, ‘not well’,
and ‘not at all’.

Language is an important defining characteristic of people’s identity.
Information from this question can be used with data collected from other
identity questions such as ethnic group, national identity and religion to
provide a detailed picture of England and Wales in 2011. The data also helps
local authorities to target, deliver and facilitate the provision of public
services, for example, to help identify the need for translation and the
interpretation for providing English language lessons. ONS decided that
meeting this need was essential for any language question.

Future releases of 2011 Census data will include multivariate tables (two or
more variables for example, ethnic group by main language).This will enable
more detailed analyses of the population’s characteristics to be published.

Back to table of contents

##  11\.  Comparability with other sources

A similar question on language is asked on the Labour Force Survey (LFS). This
survey showed that in 2012, 92.2 per cent of the population in England and
Wales had English (English and Welsh in Wales) as their ‘first language at
home’. This figure has been steadily declining since 2003 (when the question
was first asked) when it was 95.0 per cent showing a decrease of 2.8
percentage points overall.

This is broadly consistent with the 2011 Census, however, there should be
caution when comparing the Census due to methodological differences - the LFS
is a sample survey and asks a question on the ‘first language at home’ (every
three years) and not ‘What is your main language’.

Back to table of contents

##  12\.  More Census analysis

[ Census Analysis landing page ](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/guide-
method/census/analysis/index.html "2011 Census Analysis")

Back to table of contents

##  13 .  Background notes

  1. This publication follows the [ 2011 Census Population and Household Estimates for England and Wales ](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/rel/census/2011-census/key-statistics-for-local-authorities-in-england-and-wales/index.html "Key statistics for local authorities in England and Wales") . The census provides estimates of the characteristics of all people and households in England and Wales on census night. These are produced for a variety of users including government, local and unitary authorities, business and communities. The census provides population statistics from a national to local level. This bulletin discusses the results at national and regional level. 

  2. 2001 Census data are available via the [ Neighbourhood Statistics ](http://www.neighbourhood.statistics.gov.uk/dissemination/Download1.do;jsessionid=NYTQQFbJwFqpVC9y2Tx0kRxnvLXqKKwhk8phT1L71Z1bbRnHxxbJ!-48392752!1355144009249?&nsjs=true&nsck=true&nssvg=false&nswid=1916 "NESS") website. Relevant table numbers are provided in all download files within this publication. 

  3. Interactive [ data visualisations ](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/interactive/index.html "interactive content") developed by ONS are also available to aid interpretation of the results. 

  4. Future releases from the 2011 Census will include more detail in cross tabulations, and tabulations at other geographies. These include wards, health areas, parliamentary constituencies, postcode sectors and national parks. [ Population and household estimates ](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/rel/census/2011-census/key-statistics-and-quick-statistics-for-health-areas-and-post-code-sectors-in-england-and-wales/index.html) are already available at these geographies. Further information on future releases is available online in the [ 2011 Census Prospectus ](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/guide-method/census/2011/census-data/2011-census-prospectus/index.html "2011 Census Prospectus") . 

  5. ONS has ensured that the data collected meet users' needs via an extensive [ 2011 Census outputs consultation ](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/guide-method/census/2011/the-2011-census/census-consultations/index.html "Census consultation") process in order to ensure that the 2011 Census outputs will be of increased use in the planning of housing, education, health and transport services in future years. 

  6. Any reference to local authorities includes both local and unitary authorities. 

  7. Figures in this publication may not sum due to rounding. 

  8. ONS is responsible for carrying out the census in England and Wales. Simultaneous but separate censuses took place in Scotland and Northern Ireland. These were run by the National Records of Scotland (NRS) and the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency (NISRA) respectively. 

  9. A person's place of usual residence is in most cases the address at which they stay the majority of the time. For many people this will be their permanent or family home. If a member of the services did not have a permanent or family address at which they are usually resident, they were recorded as usually resident at their base address. 

  10. All key terms used in this publication, such as resident are explained in the [ 2011 Census glossary ](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/guide-method/census/2011/census-data/2011-census-data/2011-first-release/2011-census-definitions/index.html "2011 Census Glossary and Definitions") . Information on the [ 2011 Census Geography Products for England and Wales ](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/guide-method/geography/products/census/index.html "2011 Census Geography Products for England and Wales") is also available. 

  11. All census population estimates were extensively quality assured, using other national and local sources of information for comparison and review by a series of quality assurance panels. An extensive range of [ quality assurance, evaluation and methodology papers ](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/guide-method/census/2011/census-data/2011-census-data/2011-first-release/first-release--quality-assurance-and-methodology-papers/index.html "quality assurance and methodology papers") were published alongside the first release in July 2012 and have been updated in this release, including a [ Quality and Methodology Information (QMI) document (152.8 Kb Pdf) ](http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/guide-method/census/2011/census-data/2011-census-data/2011-first-release/first-release--quality-assurance-and-methodology-papers/quality-methodology-information-paper.pdf "quality assurance and methodology papers") . 

  12. The 2011 Census achieved its overall target response rate of 94 per cent of the usually resident population of England and Wales, and over 80 per cent in all local and unitary authorities. The population estimate for England and Wales of 56.1 million is estimated with 95 per cent confidence to be accurate to within +/- 85,000 (0.15 per cent). 

  13. Details of the policy governing the release of new data are available by visiting [ www.statisticsauthority.gov.uk/assessment/code-of-practice/index.html ](www.statisticsauthority.gov.uk/assessment/code-of-practice/index.html) or from the Media Relations Office email: [ media.relations@ons.gsi.gov.uk ](mailto:media.relations@ons.gsi.gov.uk)

Back to table of contents

###  Contact details for this  Article

Angela Potter-Collins  
[ EqualitiesandWellbeing@ons.gsi.gov.uk
](mailto:EqualitiesandWellbeing@ons.gsi.gov.uk)  
Telephone: +44 (0)1633 455281

##  Footer links

###  Help

  * [ Accessibility ](/help/accessibility)
  * [ Cookies and privacy ](/help/cookiesandprivacy)
  * [ Terms and conditions ](/help/termsandconditions)

###  About ONS

  * [ What we do ](/aboutus/whatwedo)
  * [ Careers ](/aboutus/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/aboutus/contactus)
  * [ News ](/news)
  * [ Freedom of Information ](/aboutus/transparencyandgovernance/freedomofinformationfoi)

###  Connect with us

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/ONS)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/ONS)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/office-for-national-statistics)
  * [ Email alerts ](https://public.govdelivery.com/accounts/UKONS/subscribers/new)

![OGL](/img/ogl.png)

All content is available under the [ Open Government Licence v3.0
](http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/) ,
except where otherwise stated

