http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601
We use cookies to enhance your experience on our website. By continuing to use
our website, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. You can change your
cookie settings at any time. [ Find out more
](http://global.oup.com/cookiepolicy/) Jump to Content  Jump to Main
Navigation

OSO  version  0.4.3  build  1

[ University Press Scholarship Online  ](//www.universitypressscholarship.com)

  * [ Sign in ](/login;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B) . 
  * Not registered? [ Sign up. ](/signup;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B "Sign Up")

  * [ About  ](/page/about-oso/about;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)
  * [ News  ](/page/news;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)
  * [ Partner Presses  ](/page/partner-presses;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)
  * [ Subscriber Services  ](/page/subscriber-services;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)
  * [ Contact Us  ](/page/contact-us;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)
  * [ Take a Tour  ](/page/take-a-tour;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)
  * [ Help  ](/page/help;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)

[ Oxford Scholarship Online  ](/)

[ Publications ](/browse) [ Pages ](/searchSecondary)

  * Publications 
  * Pages 

All Partner Presses  Oxford Scholarship Online  [ Advanced Search
](/advancedsearch;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)

[ Help  ](/help;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B#viewbook)

[
](/oso/viewoxchapbook.layout:updatesearchbyspecializations;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B?t:ac=10.1093$002facprof:oso$002f9780195327601.001.0001$002facprof-9780195327601)
Search my Subject Specializations:  Select  ...

[
](/oso/viewoxchapbook.layout:updatespecializations;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B?t:ac=10.1093$002facprof:oso$002f9780195327601.001.0001$002facprof-9780195327601)

####  Select your specializations:  Select All  /  Clear Selections

  * Biology 
    * Animal Biology 
    * Aquatic Biology 
    * Biochemistry / Molecular Biology 
    * Biodiversity / Conservation Biology 
    * Biomathematics / Statistics and Data Analysis / Complexity Studies 
    * Biotechnology 
    * Developmental Biology 
    * Disease Ecology / Epidemiology 
    * Ecology 
    * Evolutionary Biology / Genetics 
    * Microbiology 
    * Natural History and Field Guides 
    * Ornithology 
    * Plant Sciences and Forestry 
  * Business and Management 
    * Business History 
    * Corporate Governance and Accountability 
    * Finance, Accounting, and Banking 
    * HRM / IR 
    * Information Technology 
    * Innovation 
    * International Business 
    * Knowledge Management 
    * Marketing 
    * Organization Studies 
    * Pensions and Pension Management 
    * Political Economy 
    * Public Management 
    * Strategy 
  * Classical Studies 
    * African History: BCE to 500CE 
    * American History: pre-Columbian BCE to 500CE 
    * Ancient Greek, Roman, and Early Christian Philosophy 
    * Ancient Religions 
    * Archaeology: Classical 
    * Archaeology: Non-Classical 
    * Asian and Middle Eastern History: BCE to 500CE 
    * British and Irish History: BCE to 500CE 
    * European History: BCE to 500CE 
    * History of Art: pre-history, BCE to 500CE, ancient and classical, Byzantine 
    * Literary Studies: Classical, Early, and Medieval 
    * Plays and Playwrights: Classical, Early, and Medieval 
    * Poetry and Poets: Classical, Early, and Medieval 
    * Prose and Writers: Classical, Early, and Medieval 
    * World History: BCE to 500CE 
  * Economics and Finance 
    * Behavioural Economics 
    * Development, Growth, and Environmental 
    * Econometrics 
    * Economic History 
    * Economic Systems 
    * Financial Economics 
    * History of Economic Thought 
    * International 
    * Macro- and Monetary Economics 
    * Microeconomics 
    * Public and Welfare 
    * South and East Asia 
  * History 
    * African History 
    * African-American History 
    * American History: 19th Century 
    * American History: 20th Century 
    * American History: Civil War 
    * American History: early to 18th Century 
    * Ancient History / Archaeology 
    * Asian History 
    * British and Irish Early Modern History 
    * British and Irish Medieval History 
    * British and Irish Modern History 
    * Cultural History 
    * Economic History 
    * Environmental History 
    * European Early Modern History 
    * European Medieval History 
    * European Modern History 
    * Family History 
    * Historiography 
    * History of Ideas 
    * History of Religion 
    * History of Science, Technology, and Medicine 
    * Indian History 
    * Latin American History 
    * Middle East History 
    * Military History 
    * Political History 
    * Social History 
    * World Early Modern History 
    * World Medieval History 
    * World Modern History 
  * Law 
    * Company and Commercial Law 
    * Comparative Law 
    * Competition Law 
    * Constitutional and Administrative Law 
    * Criminal Law and Criminology 
    * EU Law 
    * Employment Law 
    * Environmental and Energy Law 
    * Family Law 
    * Human Rights and Immigration 
    * Intellectual Property, IT, and Media Law 
    * Law of Obligations 
    * Legal History 
    * Legal Profession and Ethics 
    * Medical Law 
    * Philosophy of Law 
    * Private International Law 
    * Public International Law 
    * Trusts 
  * Linguistics 
    * Applied Linguistics and Pedagogy 
    * Computational Linguistics 
    * English Language 
    * Historical Linguistics 
    * Language Families 
    * Lexicography 
    * Phonetics / Phonology 
    * Psycholinguistics / Neurolinguistics / Cognitive Linguistics 
    * Semantics and Pragmatics 
    * Sociolinguistics / Anthropological Linguistics 
    * Syntax and Morphology 
    * Theoretical Linguistics 
  * Literature 
    * 16th-century and Renaissance Literature 
    * 17th-century and Restoration Literature 
    * 18th-century Literature 
    * 19th-century Literature and Romanticism 
    * 19th-century and Victorian Literature 
    * 20th-century Literature and Modernism 
    * 20th-century and Contemporary Literature 
    * African-American Literature 
    * American Colonial Literature 
    * American, 18th Century and Early American Literature 
    * American, 19th Century Literature 
    * American, 20th Century Literature 
    * Anglo-Saxon / Old English Literature 
    * Criticism/Theory 
    * Drama 
    * Early and Medieval Literature 
    * European Literature 
    * Film, Media, and Cultural Studies 
    * Folk Literature 
    * Milton Studies 
    * Mythology and Folklore 
    * Poetry 
    * Prose (inc. letters, diaries) 
    * Shakespeare Studies 
    * Women's Literature 
    * World Literature 
  * Mathematics 
    * Algebra 
    * Analysis 
    * Applied Mathematics 
    * Biostatistics 
    * Combinatorics / Graph Theory / Discrete Mathematics 
    * Computational Mathematics / Optimization 
    * Educational Mathematics 
    * Geometry / Topology 
    * History of Mathematics 
    * Logic / Computer Science / Mathematical Philosophy 
    * Mathematical Biology 
    * Mathematical Finance 
    * Mathematical Physics 
    * Numerical Analysis 
    * Probability / Statistics 
    * Pure Mathematics 
  * Music 
    * Dance 
    * Ethnomusicology, World Music 
    * History, American 
    * History, Western 
    * Opera 
    * Performing Practice/Studies 
    * Philosophy of Music 
    * Popular 
    * Psychology of Music 
    * Theory, Analysis, Composition 

  * Neuroscience 
    * Behavioral Neuroscience 
    * Development 
    * Disorders of the Nervous System 
    * History of Neuroscience 
    * Invertebrate Neurobiology 
    * Molecular and Cellular Systems 
    * Neuroendocrine and Autonomic 
    * Sensory and Motor Systems 
    * Techniques 
  * Palliative Care 
    * Paediatric Palliative Medicine 
    * Pain Management and Palliative Pharmacology 
    * Palliative Medicine Research 
    * Palliative Medicine and Older People 
    * Patient Care and End-of-Life Decision Making 
  * Philosophy 
    * Aesthetics 
    * American Philosophy 
    * Ancient Philosophy 
    * Feminist Philosophy 
    * General 
    * History of Philosophy 
    * Logic/Philosophy of Mathematics 
    * Metaphysics/Epistemology 
    * Moral Philosophy 
    * Philosophy of Language 
    * Philosophy of Mind 
    * Philosophy of Religion 
    * Philosophy of Science 
    * Political Philosophy 
  * Physics 
    * Atomic, Laser, and Optical Physics 
    * Condensed Matter Physics / Materials 
    * Crystallography 
    * Geophysics, Atmospheric and Environmental Physics 
    * History of Physics 
    * Nuclear and Plasma Physics 
    * Particle Physics / Astrophysics / Cosmology 
    * Soft Matter / Biological Physics 
    * Theoretical, Computational, and Statistical Physics 
  * Political Science 
    * American Politics 
    * Asian Politics 
    * Comparative Politics 
    * Conflict Politics and Policy 
    * Democratization 
    * Environmental Politics 
    * European Union 
    * Indian Politics 
    * International Relations and Politics 
    * Middle Eastern Politics 
    * Political Economy 
    * Political Theory 
    * Reference 
    * Russian Politics 
    * Security Studies 
    * UK Politics 
  * Psychology 
    * Behavioural Neuroendocrinology 
    * Clinical Child Psychology / School Psychology 
    * Clinical Psychology 
    * Cognitive Models and Architectures 
    * Cognitive Neuroscience 
    * Cognitive Psychology 
    * Developmental Psychology 
    * Evolutionary Psychology 
    * Forensic Psychology 
    * Health Psychology 
    * Human-Technology Interaction 
    * Music Psychology 
    * Neuropsychology 
    * Psychopharmacology 
    * Social Psychology 
    * Vision 
  * Public Health and Epidemiology 
    * Epidemiology 
    * Public Health 
  * Religion 
    * Biblical Studies 
    * Buddhism 
    * Church History 
    * Early Christian Studies 
    * Hinduism 
    * History of Christianity 
    * Islam 
    * Judaism 
    * Philosophy of Religion 
    * Religion and Literature 
    * Religion and Society 
    * Religion in the Ancient World 
    * Religious Studies 
    * Sikhism 
    * Theology 
    * World Religions 
  * Social Work 
    * Children and Families 
    * Communities and Organizations 
    * Crime and Justice 
    * Health and Mental Health 
    * Research and Evaluation 
    * Social Policy 
  * Sociology 
    * Comparative and Historical Sociology 
    * Culture 
    * Economic Sociology 
    * Education 
    * Gender and Sexuality 
    * Gerontology and Ageing 
    * Health, Illness, and Medicine 
    * Law, Crime and Deviance 
    * Marriage and the Family 
    * Methodology and Statistics 
    * Migration Studies (including Refugee Studies) 
    * Occupations, Professions, and Work 
    * Politics, Social Movements and Social Change 
    * Population and Demography 
    * Race and Ethnicity 
    * Science, Technology and Environment 
    * Social Movements and Social Change 
    * Social Psychology and Interaction 
    * Social Research and Statistics 
    * Social Stratification, Inequality, and Mobility 
    * Social Theory 
    * Sociology of Religion 
    * Sport and Leisure 
    * Urban and Rural Studies 

  * [ ](/)
  * Browse by Subject 

  * [ My Content  (0)  ]()

  * [ My searches  (0)  ]()

  * [ Biology ](/browse?t=OSO:biology)
  * [ Business and Management ](/browse?t=OSO:management)
  * [ Classical Studies ](/browse?t=OSO:classics)
  * [ Economics and Finance ](/browse?t=OSO:economicsFinance)
  * [ History ](/browse?t=OSO:history)
  * [ Law ](/browse?t=OSO:law)
  * [ Linguistics ](/browse?t=OSO:linguistics)
  * [ Literature ](/browse?t=OSO:literature)
  * [ Mathematics ](/browse?t=OSO:maths)
  * [ Music ](/browse?t=OSO:music)
  * [ Neuroscience ](/browse?t=OSO:neuroscience)
  * [ Palliative Care ](/browse?t=OSO:palliativeCare)
  * [ Philosophy ](/browse?t=OSO:philosophy)
  * [ Physics ](/browse?t=OSO:physics)
  * [ Political Science ](/browse?t=OSO:politicalScience)
  * [ Psychology ](/browse?t=OSO:psychology)
  * [ Public Health and Epidemiology ](/browse?t=OSO:publicHealthEpidemiology)
  * [ Religion ](/browse?t=OSO:religion)
  * [ Social Work ](/browse?t=OSO:socialWork)
  * [ Sociology ](/browse?t=OSO:sociology)

Close

![Language Myths and the History of English](/view/covers/9780195327601.jpg)

Users without a subscription are not able to see the full content.

  * [ Find in Worldcat ](http://worldcat.org/isbn/9780195327601)

#  Language Myths and the History of English

##  Richard J. Watts

###  Abstract

This book aims to deconstruct the myths that are traditionally reproduced as
factual accounts of the historical development of English, and to reveal new
myths that are currently being constructed. Using concepts and interpretive
sensibilities developed in the field of sociolinguistics, discourse analysis,
and sociocognitive linguistics over the past 40 years, the book unearths these
myths and exposes their ideological roots. Based on the assumption that
conventional histories of English are histories of standard English rather
than histories of the varieties of English, he sets h ...  More

This book aims to deconstruct the myths that are traditionally reproduced as
factual accounts of the historical development of English, and to reveal new
myths that are currently being constructed. Using concepts and interpretive
sensibilities developed in the field of sociolinguistics, discourse analysis,
and sociocognitive linguistics over the past 40 years, the book unearths these
myths and exposes their ideological roots. Based on the assumption that
conventional histories of English are histories of standard English rather
than histories of the varieties of English, he sets his goal as being not to
construct an alternative discourse, but rather to offer alternative readings
of the historical data. It defines what we mean by a linguistic ideology and
shows how language myths, rather than simply being untruths about language,
are derived from conceptual metaphors of language and are crucial in the
formation of hegemonic discourses on language. He argues, in effect, that no
discourse—a hegemonic discourse, an alternative discourse, or even a
deconstructive discourse—can ever be free of ideology. The book argues that a
naturalized discourse is always built on a foundation of myths, which are all
too easily taken as true accounts, and is a call to study alternative ways in
which the full range of “Englishes” may ultimately be accounted for
historically. But the book also issues the warning that, whatever new
histories are proposed, they, too, will ultimately need to undergo a thorough
investigation with regard to the myths that may underlie them.

_Keywords:_ [ history of English
](//www.universitypressscholarship.com/search?f_0=keywords&q_0=history of
English) , [ language myths
](//www.universitypressscholarship.com/search?f_0=keywords&q_0=language myths)
, [ discourse archives
](//www.universitypressscholarship.com/search?f_0=keywords&q_0=discourse
archives) , [ hegemonic discourse
](//www.universitypressscholarship.com/search?f_0=keywords&q_0=hegemonic
discourse) , [ conceptual metaphors
](//www.universitypressscholarship.com/search?f_0=keywords&q_0=conceptual
metaphors) , [ language ideologies
](//www.universitypressscholarship.com/search?f_0=keywords&q_0=language
ideologies) , [ standard vs. non-standard
](//www.universitypressscholarship.com/search?f_0=keywords&q_0=standard vs.
non-standard)

###  Bibliographic Information

Print publication date: 2011  |  Print ISBN-13: 9780195327601  
---|---  
Published to Oxford Scholarship Online: May 2011  |
DOI:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001  
  
###  Authors

####  Affiliations are at time of print publication.

Richard J. Watts, _author_  
University of Bern, Switzerland  
[ Author Webpage
](http://www.ens.unibe.ch/content/about_us/modern_linguistics/r_watts/)  

More  Less

  * [ Print  ](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601?print "Print")
  * [ Save  ](/signup;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B "Save")
  * [ Cite  ](/cite/$002f10.1093$002facprof:oso$002f9780195327601.001.0001$002facprof-9780195327601/9780195327601;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B?nojs=true "Cite")
  * [ Email  ](/oso/viewoxchapbook:email/Language$0020Myths$0020and$0020the$0020History$0020of$0020English$0020-$0020Oxford$0020Scholarship/http:$002f$002fwww.oxfordscholarship.com$002fview$002f10.1093$002facprof:oso$002f9780195327601.001.0001$002facprof-9780195327601;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B?t:ac=10.1093$002facprof:oso$002f9780195327601.001.0001$002facprof-9780195327601&nojs=true " Email")
  * [ Share  ![Share](//s7.addthis.com/static/btn/sm-share-en.gif) ](//www.addthis.com/bookmark.php?v=250&pub= "Share")
  * Hit Highlighting 

Decrease  Increase

Search within book

Email Address

Password

[ Forgotten your password?
](http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/page/1544/forgotten-your-password
"Subscriber Services")

Library Card #

  * Login with your Library Card 
  * [ Login with Athens/Access Management Federation ](https://shibboleth2sp.sams.oup.com/shib?dest=http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/SHIBBOLETH?dest=%2Fview%2F10.1093%2Facprof%3Aoso%2F9780195327601.001.0001%2Facprof-9780195327601)
  * [ Login with Athens ](https://auth.athensams.net/?ath_dspid=OUP&ath_returl=http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/ATHENS?dest=%2Fview%2F10.1093%2Facprof%3Aoso%2F9780195327601.001.0001%2Facprof-9780195327601)

[ Don't have an account?
](/page/subscribe;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)

###  Subject(s) in Oxford Scholarship Online

  * [ Linguistics ](/browse;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B?t1=OSO%3Alinguistics)
  * [ Sociolinguistics / Anthropological Linguistics ](/browse;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B?t1=OSO%3Alinsoc)

###  Reviews

  * [ Find in JSTOR ](http://www.jstor.org/action/doAdvancedSearch?q0=Language+Myths+and+the+History+of+English&f0=ti&c1=AND&q1=Watts&f1=au&acc=on&wc=on&Search=Search&re=on&sd=&ed=&la=&jo)

###  Related Content in OSO

  * [ _Bad Language_ , Edwin L. Battistella (2005)  ](/viewByDoi/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195172485.001.0001)
  * [ _A History of English_ , Donald Ringe (2006)  ](/viewByDoi/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199284139.001.0001)
  * [ _Sound Change and the History of English_ , Jeremy Smith (2007)  ](/viewByDoi/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199291953.001.0001)
  * [ _Talking Proper_ , Lynda Mugglestone (2007)  ](/viewByDoi/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199250622.001.0001)
  * [ _Experience, Evidence, and Sense_ , Anna Wierzbicka (2010)  ](/viewByDoi/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195368000.001.0001)

Show Summary Details

[ subscribe ](/) or login to access all content.

##  Subscriber Login

Email Address

Password

[ Forgotten your password?
](http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/page/1544/forgotten-your-password
"Subscriber Services")

Library Card #

  * Login with your Library Card 
  * [ Login with Athens/Access Management Federation ](https://shibboleth2sp.sams.oup.com/shib?dest=http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/SHIBBOLETH?dest=%2Fview%2F10.1093%2Facprof%3Aoso%2F9780195327601.001.0001%2Facprof-9780195327601)
  * [ Login with Athens ](https://auth.athensams.net/?ath_dspid=OUP&ath_returl=http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/ATHENS?dest=%2Fview%2F10.1093%2Facprof%3Aoso%2F9780195327601.001.0001%2Facprof-9780195327601)

[ Don't have an account?
](/page/subscribe;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)

#  Contents

Go to page:  ![](/assets/tapestry/5.1.0.4/spacer.gif)

View:

  * no detail 
  * [ some detail ](/oso/viewoxchapbook.viewmode:viewchange/MED;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B?t:ac=10.1093$002facprof:oso$002f9780195327601.001.0001$002facprof-9780195327601)
  * [ full detail ](/oso/viewoxchapbook.viewmode:viewchange/MAX;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B?t:ac=10.1093$002facprof:oso$002f9780195327601.001.0001$002facprof-9780195327601)

##  Front Matter

###  [ Title Pages
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-miscMatter-1)

###  [ To all my former students with thanks and fond memories
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-miscMatter-5)

###  [ Preface
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-miscMatter-6)

###  [ Language Myths and the History of English
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-miscMatter-8)

###  [ Chapter 1 Metaphors, myths, ideologies and archives
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-1)

###  [ Chapter 2 Establishing a linguistic pedigree
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-2)

###  [ Chapter 3 Breaking the unbroken tradition
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-3)

###  [ Chapter 4 The construction of a modern myth: Middle English as a creole
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-4)

###  [ Chapter 5 Barbarians and others
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-5)

###  [ Chapter 6 The myth of “greatness”
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-6)

###  [ Chapter 7 Reinterpreting Swift's A Proposal for Correcting, Improving
and Ascertaining the English Tongue
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-7)

###  [ Chapter 8 Polishing the myths
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-8)

###  [ Chapter 9 Challenging the hegemony of standard English
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-9)

###  [ Chapter 10 Transforming a myth to save an archive
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-10)

###  [ Chapter 11 Commodifying English and constructing a new myth
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-11)

###  [ Chapter 12 Myths, ideologies of English and the funnel view of the
history of English
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-chapter-12)

##  End Matter

###  [ References
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-bibliography-1)

###  [ Index
](/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001/acprof-9780195327601-indexList-1)

[ Oxford University Press  ](http://www.oup.com/)

Copyright © 2017. All rights reserved.

PRINTED FROM OXFORD SCHOLARSHIP ONLINE (www.oxfordscholarship.com). (c)
Copyright Oxford University Press, 2017. All Rights Reserved. Under the terms
of the licence agreement, an individual user may print out a PDF of a single
chapter of a monograph in OSO for personal use (for details see [
http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/page/privacy-policy
](http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/page/privacy-policy) ).date: 22 December
2017

  * [ Privacy policy and legal notice  ](/page/privacy-policy/privacy-policy-and-legal-notice;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)
  * [ Credits  ](/page/51/credits;jsessionid=408415A48F1D643FA3C1B2FDC6282C1B)

Powered by:

[ Safari Books Online  ](http://www.pubfactory.com)

  * [41.35.84.57|41.35.84.57] 
  * 41.35.84.57 

![](//ouptag.scholarlyiq.com/ntpagetag.gif?js=0)

