http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0388000110000549
Skip to main content

View ScienceDirect over a secure connection: [ switch to HTTPS ](https)

[ ScienceDirect  ](/)

  * [ Journals ](/science/journals)
  * [ Books ](/science/bookbshsrw)
  * [ Register ](/user/register?returnURL=%2Fscience%2Farticle%2Fpii%2FS0388000110000549)

  * [ Sign in  ](/user/login?returnURL=%2Fscience%2Farticle%2Fpii%2FS0388000110000549)
  * [ Help  ](https://service.elsevier.com/app/home/supporthub/sciencedirect/ "Help")

  * [ Journals ](/science/journals)
  * [ Books ](/science/bookbshsrw)
  * [ Register ](/user/register?returnURL=%2Fscience%2Farticle%2Fpii%2FS0388000110000549)

* [ Sign in  ](/user/login?returnURL=%2Fscience%2Farticle%2Fpii%2FS0388000110000549)
* [ Help  ](https://service.elsevier.com/app/home/supporthub/sciencedirect/ "Help")

[ __ Purchase PDF  Purchase
](/science?_ob=ShoppingCartURL&_method=add&_eid=1-s2.0-S0388000110000549&originContentFamily=serial&_origin=article&_ts=1513964813&md5=9f7b4dcf7d008d86be29de8f0fc307ab)

Export

[ Advanced ](/science/search)

JavaScript is disabled on your browser. Please enable JavaScript to use all
the features on this page.

[ ![Elsevier](https://sdfestaticassets-us-
east-1.sciencedirectassets.com/prod/4aa9156e2051e44a2636c2206e21e666f9b69da3/image/elsevier-
non-solus.png) ](/science/journal/03880001)

##  [ Language Sciences ](/science/journal/03880001 "Go to Language Sciences
on ScienceDirect")

[ Volume 32, Issue 6  ](/science/journal/03880001/32/6 "Go to table of
contents for this volume/issue") ,  November 2010  , Pages 594-601

[ ![Language Sciences](https://ars.els-
cdn.com/content/image/1-s2.0-S0388000110X00055-cov150h.gif)
](/science/journal/03880001/32/6)

#  New Englishes and the native speaker debate

Author links open overlay panel  Rajend  Mesthrie

Show more

[ https://doi.org/10.1016/j.langsci.2010.08.002
](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.langsci.2010.08.002 "Persistent link using digital
object identifier") [ Get rights and content
](https://s100.copyright.com/AppDispatchServlet?publisherName=ELS&contentID=S0388000110000549&orderBeanReset=true)

##  Abstract

In this paper I examine arguments for and against the concept of the native
speaker in linguistics. My focus is mainly on new varieties of English that
have stabilized in parts of the former British Empire, with main
exemplification from Indian English and its bilingual speakers as well three
varieties that have undergone or are undergoing language shift. I examine the
ideas of critics who dispute the idea (from different perspectives) that
English is merely a second language in India (  Kachru, 1983; Singh, 1998  ).
I use their ideas and formulations to ascertain what kinds of evidence are
most appropriate to the debate over “nativeness”. I propose that formal
linguistic criteria (e.g. those proposed for L1s by  Chambers (2003)  and for
L2s by  Kortmann and Szmrecsanyi (2004)  ) are less relevant than issues
pertaining to fluency, control and prestige. In this regard, I chart the
continuing rise of Indian English into what I believe is the expanding group
of Standard Englishes of the world.

###  Research highlights

► Structural criteria as evidence for ‘nativeness’ are not totally adequate. ►
Language shift provides a better window into the flexible limits of
nativeness. ► Elite bilingualism also shows the problematic nature of defining
the native speaker as a monolingual person. ► An elite variety of Indian
English is perhaps the first “New English” to enter the circle of Standard
Englishes of the world, whilst emerging from a fully multilingual context.

  * **Previous** article  in  issue 
  * **Next** article  in  issue 

##  Keywords

New Englishes

Native speaker

Indian English

Language shift

Elite bilingualism

##  Choose an option to locate/access this article:

Check if you have access through your login credentials or your institution.

[ Check Access
](/user/login?targetURL=%2Fuser%2Frouter%2Flogin%3FtargetURL%3D%252Fscience%252Farticle%252Fpii%252FS0388000110000549
"Click to see if you have full text access")

or

[ Purchase
](/science?_ob=ShoppingCartURL&_method=add&_eid=1-s2.0-S0388000110000549&originContentFamily=serial&_origin=article&_ts=1513964813&md5=9f7b4dcf7d008d86be29de8f0fc307ab)

or

[ Check for this article elsewhere
](https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0388000110000549?showall=true)

Recommended articles  Citing articles (  0  )

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

##  Recommended articles

##  Citing articles

##  Article Metrics

[ View article metrics
](https://plu.mx/plum/a/?doi=10.1016/j.langsci.2010.08.002)

[ Elsevier  ](https://www.elsevier.com/)

[ About ScienceDirect ](https://www.elsevier.com/solutions/sciencedirect) [
Remote access ](/science/activateaccess) [ Shopping cart
](/science?_ob=ShoppingCartURL&_method=display&md5=3ff44acb300f01481824c54a2973d019)
[ Contact and support
](https://service.elsevier.com/app/contact/supporthub/sciencedirect/) [ Terms
and conditions ](https://www.elsevier.com/legal/elsevier-website-terms-and-
conditions) [ Privacy policy ](https://www.elsevier.com/legal/privacy-policy)

Cookies are used by this site. For more information, visit the [ cookies page
](https://www.elsevier.com/solutions/sciencedirect/support/cookies) .

Copyright ©  2017  Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors.
ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V.

[ RELX Group  ](https://www.relx.com/)

![](https://www.facebook.com/tr?id=1086177924859222&ev=PageView&noscript=1)

![](//googleads.g.doubleclick.net/pagead/viewthroughconversion/1017027555/?guid=ON&script=0)

