http://dyslexia.yale.edu/book_Overcoming.html
[ ![Yale Dyslexia](/wp-content/themes/ch-theme/img/logo.png)
](http://dyslexia.yale.edu)

Toggle main menu visibility

Search

  * The Center 
    * The Center  Back 
    * [ Our Mission ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/the-center/our-mission/)
    * [ Our Leadership ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/the-center/our-leadership/)
    * [ From the Directors ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/the-center/from-the-directors/)
    * [ What We Do ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/the-center/what-we-do/)
  * Dyslexia 
    * Dyslexia  Back 
    * [ What is Dyslexia? ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/dyslexia/what-is-dyslexia/)
    * [ Dyslexia FAQ ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/dyslexia/dyslexia-faq/)
    * [ Signs of Dyslexia ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/dyslexia/signs-of-dyslexia/)
    * [ Early Clues ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/dyslexia/early-clues/)
    * [ Declaration of Rights ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/dyslexia/declaration-of-rights/)
    * [ Use The Word Dyslexia ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/dyslexia/use-the-word-dyslexia/)
    * [ Dyslexia-Friendly Environment ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/dyslexia/dyslexia-friendly-environment/)
    * [ Dyslexia PSA ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/dyslexia/dyslexia-psa/)
  * Research & Science 
    * Research & Science  Back 
    * [ YCDC Research ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/research-science/ycdc-research/)
    * [ Overcoming Dyslexia ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/research-science/overcoming-dyslexia/)
  * Resources 
    * Resources  Back 
    * [ Accommodations ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/accommodations/)
      * Resources  Back  [ Accommodations ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/accommodations/)
      * [ Time & Tools ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/accommodations/time-and-tools/)
      * [ Understanding the Law ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/accommodations/understanding-the-law/)
      * [ Interventions Defined ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/accommodations/interventions-defined/)
    * [ Parents ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/parents/)
      * Resources  Back  [ Parents ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/parents/)
      * [ What Parents Can Do ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/parents/what-parents-can-do/)
      * [ School Strategies ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/parents/school-strategies/)
      * [ Stories from Parents ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/parents/stories-from-parents/)
    * [ Educators ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/educators/)
      * Resources  Back  [ Educators ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/educators/)
      * [ Instruction ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/educators/instruction/)
      * [ School Culture ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/educators/school-culture/)
    * [ Dyslexic Kids & Adults ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/dyslexic-kids-adults/)
      * Resources  Back  [ Dyslexic Kids & Adults ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/dyslexic-kids-adults/)
      * [ Tips From Students ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/dyslexic-kids-adults/tips-from-students/)
      * [ On Being Dyslexic ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/dyslexic-kids-adults/on-being-dyslexic/)
      * [ College Planning ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/dyslexic-kids-adults/college-planning/)
      * [ Reading ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/dyslexic-kids-adults/reading/)
      * [ Stories from Dyslexics ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/dyslexic-kids-adults/stories-from-dyslexics/)
      * [ Dyslexic Students Speak Out ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/dyslexic-kids-adults/dyslexic-students-speak-out/)
      * [ Creative Kids ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/dyslexic-kids-adults/creative-kids/)
    * [ Tools & Technology ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/tools-technology/)
      * Resources  Back  [ Tools & Technology ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/tools-technology/)
      * [ Tech Tips ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/tools-technology/tech-tips/)
      * [ Suggested Reading ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/resources/tools-technology/suggested-reading/)
  * [ Success Stories ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/success-stories/)
  * Advocacy 
    * Advocacy  Back 
    * [ Advocacy Outreach ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/advocacy-outreach/)
    * [ National Advocacy ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/national-advocacy/)
    * [ Making a Difference ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/making-a-difference/)
    * [ Toolkit for Parents, Educators and Students ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/toolkit-for-parents-educators-and-students/)
      * Advocacy  Back  [ Toolkit for Parents, Educators and Students ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/toolkit-for-parents-educators-and-students/)
      * [ Talking About Dyslexia Guide ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/YCDC-Guide-to-Talking-About-Dyslexia_Final032017.pdf)
      * [ Dyslexia one-pager ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/YCDC_Dyslexia_one_pager_final.pdf)
      * [ What You Can Do ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/toolkit-for-parents-educators-and-students/what-you-can-do/)
      * [ Social Media Awareness Campaign ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/toolkit-for-parents-educators-and-students/social-media-awareness-campaign/)
      * [ Printable Materials ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/toolkit-for-parents-educators-and-students/printable-materials/)
    * [ YCDC Initiatives ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/ycdc-initiatives/)
      * Advocacy  Back  [ YCDC Initiatives ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/ycdc-initiatives/)
      * [ Multicultural Outreach ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/ycdc-initiatives/multicultural-outreach/)
      * [ Library Outreach ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/advocacy/ycdc-initiatives/library-outreach/)
  * News & Press 
    * News & Press  Back 
    * [ Dyslexia in the News ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/category/dyslexia-in-the-news/)
    * [ Newsletters ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/category/newsletters/)
    * [ Press Kit ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/news-press/press-kit/)

[ Donate ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/donate/)

#  Overcoming Dyslexia

  * [ Home ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu "Home")
  * [ Research & Science ]( "Research & Science")
  * **Overcoming Dyslexia**

##  About the Book: Overcoming Dyslexia

* * *

![](/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/bk_overcoming.jpg)

##  For Everyone Who Struggles to Read!

###  Clear, practical, science-based information and advice for successful
results.

* * *

One in five American children has trouble reading. But they are not stupid or
lazy. In Overcoming Dyslexia, Dr. Sally Shaywitz, co-director of the Yale
Center for Dyslexia  & Creativity, offers the latest information about reading
problems and proven, practical techniques that, along with hard work and the
right help, can enable anyone to overcome them. Here are the tools that
parents and teachers need to help the dyslexic child, age by age, grade by
grade, step by step.

  * What dyslexia is and why some intelligent, gifted people read slowly and painfully 
  * How to identify dyslexia in preschoolers, schoolchildren, young adults, and adults 
  * How to find the best school and how to work productively with your child’s teacher 
  * Exercises to help children use the parts of the brain that control reading 
  * A 20-minute nightly home program to enhance reading 
  * The 150 most common problem words—a list that can give your child a headstart 
  * Ways to raise and preserve a child’s self-esteem and reveal his strengths 
  * Stories of successful men and women who are dyslexic 

**[ Click here ](http://www.indiebound.org/book/9780679781592) to learn more
and purchase the book. **

_Jacket copy and cover image courtesy of[ Random House, Inc.
](http://www.randomhouse.com/catalog/display.pperl/9780679781592.html) _

####  Share

Print

####  Email Newsletter Signup

Please enter your email address to sign up for our mailing list.

Email Address  Thanks for signing up!  SUBMIT  Note: In each email you
receive, there will be a link to unsubscribe or change areas of interest. Your
privacy is important to us - please read our [ Email Privacy Policy.
](https://www.constantcontact.com/legal/privacy-statement)

[ Scroll to Top  ](javascript:void\(0\); "Scroll to Top")

####  What is Dyslexia?

Dyslexia is defined as an unexpected difficulty in learning to read. Dyslexia
takes away an individual’s ability to read quickly and automatically, and to
retrieve spoken words easily, but it does not dampen their creativity and
ingenuity.

####  Latest Article

#####  Tips From Students

Nobody can fully appreciate what it’s like to be a student with dyslexia as
well as another student … [ READ MORE ](/resources/dyslexic-kids-adults/tips-
from-students/)

####  Email Newsletter Signup

Please enter your email address to sign up for our mailing list.

Email Address  Thanks for signing up!  SUBMIT  Note: In each email you
receive, there will be a link to unsubscribe or change areas of interest. Your
privacy is important to us - please read our [ Email Privacy Policy.
](https://www.constantcontact.com/legal/privacy-statement)

[ ![](/wp-content/themes/ch-theme/img/logo.png) ](http://dyslexia.yale.edu/)

  * [ ](https://www.facebook.com/YaleDyslexia)
  * [ ](https://twitter.com/DyslexiaYale)
  * [ ](https://www.youtube.com/user/YaleCenter4Dyslexia)

Copyright © 2017 The Yale Center for Dyslexia and Creativity

  * [ Site Map ](/sitemap/)

