http://fee.org/freeman/detail/why-our-children-cant-read-and-what-we-can-do-about-it
  * [ ARTICLES ](https://fee.org/articles)
  * [ EVENTS ](https://fee.org/events)
  * [ BOOKS ](https://fee.org/books)

  * [ COURSES ](http://courses.fee.org)
  * [ STORE ](https://store.fee.org)
  * [ DONATE ](/donate/)

####  Login

[ Forgot Password? ](https://community.fee.org/login/?forgot=yes)

OR

[ SIGN UP ](https://community.fee.org/register/) [ __ Facebook Login
](/umbraco/Surface/FacebookOAuthSurface/FacebookLogin) [ __ Google Login
](/umbraco/Surface/GoogleOAuthSurface/GoogleLogin)

  * [ About ](https://fee.org/about)
  * [ Staff ](https://fee.org/about/staff)
  * [ Faculty Network ](https://fee.org/about/faculty)
  * [ Alumni Network ](https://fee.org/alumni)
  * [ Board of Trustees ](https://fee.org/about/board-of-trustees)
  * [ Contact ](https://fee.org/about/contact)
  * [ Email Newsletter ](https://fee.org/resources/fee-daily)
  * [ FEE Store ](https://store.fee.org)
  * [ Freeman Archive ](https://fee.org/the-freeman)
  * [ Historical Archives ](https://history.fee.org)
  * [ Submissions ](https://fee.org/articles/submissions)
  * [ Job Openings ](https://fee.org/about/job-openings)
  * [ Annual Reports ](https://fee.org/about/annual-reports)
  * [ Financial Data ](https://fee.org/about/financial-data)
  * [ Privacy Policy ](https://fee.org/about/privacy-policy)

[ Give Now! ](/donate/?ref=sash)

[ ![FEE](/content/images/fee-logo-_text_-black.png?v=1587292152)
](https://fee.org)

  * [ ARTICLES ](https://fee.org/articles)
    * [ FEE News ](https://fee.org/articles/type/News)
  * [ EVENTS ](https://fee.org/events)
  * [ BOOKS ](https://fee.org/books)
  * [ COURSES ](https://courses.fee.org/)
  * [ STORE ](https://store.fee.org/)
  * [ DONATE ](/donate/)
  * 

[ DONATE ](https://fee.org/donate/)

![search](/images/ico-search.svg)

##  More on FEE

  * [ About ](https://fee.org/about)
  * [ Staff ](https://fee.org/about/staff)
  * [ Faculty Network ](https://fee.org/about/faculty)
  * [ Alumni Network ](https://fee.org/alumni)
  * [ Board of Trustees ](https://fee.org/about/board-of-trustees)

  * [ Contact ](https://fee.org/about/contact)
  * [ Email Newsletter ](https://fee.org/resources/fee-daily)
  * [ FEE Store ](https://store.fee.org)
  * [ Freeman Archive ](https://fee.org/the-freeman)
  * [ Historical Archives ](https://history.fee.org)

  * [ Submissions ](https://fee.org/articles/submissions)
  * [ Job Openings ](https://fee.org/about/job-openings)
  * [ Annual Reports ](https://fee.org/about/annual-reports)
  * [ Financial Data ](https://fee.org/about/financial-data)
  * [ Privacy Policy ](https://fee.org/about/privacy-policy)

Sign up for the FEE daily email:  SEND

####  Follow us:

  * [ __ ](https://www.facebook.com/feeonline/ "Facebook")
  * [ __ ](https://twitter.com/feeonline "Twitter")
  * [ __ ](https://www.youtube.com/feeonline "YouTube")
  * [ __ ](https://www.instagram.com/feeonline/ "Instagram")
  * [ __ ](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/46754 "LinkedIn")

##  My Account

Email Address

Password

[ Forgot your Password? ](https://community.fee.org/login/?forgot=yes) LOGIN

OR  [ SIGN UP ](https://community.fee.org/register/)

[ __ Facebook Login ](/umbraco/Surface/FacebookOAuthSurface/FacebookLogin) [
__ Google Login ](/umbraco/Surface/GoogleOAuthSurface/GoogleLogin)

##  Latest  
Stories

![](/media/24470/shutterstock_122631589.jpg?anchor=center&mode=crop&height=656&widthratio=2.1341463414634146341463414634&rnd=131546261320000000)
![](/media/24470/shutterstock_122631589.jpg?anchor=center&mode=crop&height=656&widthratio=0.9451219512195121951219512195&rnd=131546261320000000)

######  Saturday, August 01, 1998

[ Culture ](/articles/topics/Culture) [ Education
](/articles/topics/Education)

#  Why Our Children Can't Read and What We Can Do About It

A Plethora of Information About the Literacy Crisis

######  by [ Diane McGuinness ](/people/diane-mcguinness/) ,  [ Samuel L.
Blumenfeld ](/people/samuel-l-blumenfeld/)

  * __
  * __
  * __
  * __
  * __
  * __

_Samuel Blumenfeld has written extensively on education. His books include_ Is
Public Education Necessary? _(1981) and_ The Whole Language/OBE Fraud
_(1996)._

This is a very valuable and useful book, especially for those of us in the
reading instruction field who have been engaged in a long, drawn-out war with
the teaching establishment. The first shots of that war were fired in 1955
when Rudolf Flesch wrote his famous _Why Johnny Can’t Read and What You Can Do
About It_ , in which he told parents that the reason Johnny couldn’t read was
that he had not been taught to read in the proper phonetic way.

Flesch explained how in the early 1930s, the professors of education changed
the way reading was taught in American schools. They threw out the alphabetic-
phonics method, which is the proper way to teach children to read an
alphabetic writing system, and replaced it with a new whole-word, look-say, or
“sight” method that taught children to read English words as if they were
whole configurations, like Chinese characters. Flesch observed that when you
impose an ideographic teaching method on an alphabetic writing system, you
cause symbolic confusion that leads to reading failure.

Needless to say, the professors of education paid no attention to Flesch.
Instead, they formed the International Reading Association, which became the
citadel of whole-word pedagogy. As a result, America began to experience the
strange phenomenon of declining literacy while having more children spend more
time in school at greater taxpayer expense than ever before. By 1993, the U.S.
Department of Education reported that 90 million Americans—half the adult
population—were considered borderline illiterates.

Meanwhile, the professors were also busy revising their whole-word teaching
methods. Dick and Jane metamorphosed into “psycholinguistics,” the notion that
reading is a “psycholinguistic guessing game,” which then evolved into what is
now known as “whole language,” a concept of reading that defies all logic and
common sense.

The basic premise behind whole language is that children learn to read as
naturally as they learn to speak. Thus, they really need very little, if any,
formal instruction. Of course, if this were true, there would be no
illiterates! But what is even crazier is the definition of reading given by
three whole-language professors in their book _Whole Language, What’s the
Difference?_ (1991). They write: “From a whole language perspective, reading .
. . is a process of generating hypotheses in a meaning-making transaction in a
sociohistorical context. . . . This view of reading implies that there is no
single ‘correct’ meaning for a given text, only plausible meanings.” Amazing.

And now we come to the present book by Diane McGuinness, who enters the fray
as a “cognitive developmental psychologist.” Linguistics is considered a
branch of cognitive science, and it was pioneer linguist Leonard Bloomfield of
Yale University who first focused the attention of linguists on the way
reading was being taught in American schools. In a critical essay published in
the April and May 1942 issues of the _Elementary English Review_ , Bloomfield
contrasted the differences between an alphabetic writing system and an
ideographic one, insisting that the former must be taught phonetically. He
explained that the spoken language was composed of a limited number of
identifiable, distinctive sounds, which he called _phonemes,_ each of which is
represented in the written language by a _grapheme._ In teaching a child to
read, it was necessary to teach the _phoneme-grapheme_ correspondences. This,
by the way, is the basic principle behind Bloomfield’s own reading program,
_Let’s Read,_ which was published in 1961.

McGuinness accepts Bloomfield’s linguistic views, which were later further
developed and modified by the pioneering work of Isabelle Liberman. Bloomfield
believed that children should not be taught the letter sounds in isolation.
But Liberman discovered that having a phonemic awareness, an ability to
segment words into their individual phonemes, was a crucial factor in becoming
a good phonetic reader. Thus, McGuinness’s own approach to teaching reading,
based on Liberman’s findings, relies heavily on teaching the phonemes of the
language as the first step in learning to read. McGuinness insists that her
approach should not be confused with traditional phonics, of which she is
somewhat critical. But what she doesn’t take into account is the fact that
many reading programs that call themselves phonics are anything but true
intensive, systematic phonics, the kind responsible for the high literacy of
the past.

Because McGuinness has had to deal with children with severe reading
disorders, she became acutely aware of the whole-language method that was
causing those disorders. The result is that this book contains probably the
most devastating critique of whole-language philosophy written to date. She
believes that the scientific evidence is so overwhelmingly against whole
language that the educators will simply have to change their ways. We
earnestly hope that McGuinness is right.

She must be praised for giving us not only a new scientific approach to
teaching reading, but also a plethora of information about the literacy
crisis, much fascinating historical background on the development of
alphabetic writing, and a critical look at such disabilities as dyslexia and
attention-deficit disorder, which she asserts are caused by faulty teaching
methods. This is a book that can inspire much-needed change if the educators
are open to such change. But whether or not the educators change, I believe
that many parents and teachers can gain greatly by reading this very honest
book.

#####  [ Diane McGuinness ](/people/diane-mcguinness/)

#####  [ Samuel L. Blumenfeld ](/people/samuel-l-blumenfeld/)

  * __
  * __
  * __
  * __
  * __
  * __

Republish

Open Comments

##  Most  Popular

  * ###  {{article.title}} 

* * *

##  Featured  Course

[ ![](/media/18803/epcp-front-
page.png?anchor=center&mode=crop&height=181&widthratio=1.1049723756906077348066298343&rnd=131214382370000000)
](http://courses.fee.org/courses/economic-
principles/?utm_source=course_widget&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=courses)

###  [ Economic Principles: Cooperation and Prosperity
](http://courses.fee.org/courses/economic-
principles/?utm_source=course_widget&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=courses)

Learn the basics of economics. When individuals are free to interact in the
market economy, it leads to some spectacular results: cooperation and
prosperity.

[ FREE COURSE ](http://courses.fee.org/courses/economic-
principles/?utm_source=course_widget&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=courses)

* * *

[ ![](/images/logo-flipboard.png)
](https://flipboard.com/@feeonline/fee-t58qa0soz?utm_source=fee.org&utm_campaign=sidebar_widget&utm_medium=article)

Follow FEE on Flipboard

[ Flipboard Articles
](https://flipboard.com/@feeonline/fee-t58qa0soz?utm_source=fee.org&utm_campaign=sidebar_widget&utm_medium=article)

* * *

[ ![](/images/logo-medium.png) ](https://medium.com/fee-
org?utm_source=fee.org&utm_campaign=sidebar_widget&utm_medium=article)

Follow FEE on Medium

[ Medium Articles ](https://medium.com/fee-
org?utm_source=fee.org&utm_campaign=sidebar_widget&utm_medium=article)

##  Advertisement

##  Related  Articles

[ {{relArticle.section}} ](/articles/topics/{{relArticle.section}}) [
]({{relArticle.url}})

###  [ {{relArticle.title}} ]({{relArticle.url}})

[ {{relArticle.author}}
](/people/{{ctrl.getAuthorURL\(relArticle.metadata\)}}) \-
{{relArticle.pub_date | date : 'MMMM dd, yyyy'}}  {{relArticle.author}} -
{{relArticle.pub_date | date : 'MMMM dd, yyyy'}}  ![](/images/ico-share.svg)
{{relArticle.shareCount}}  [ ]({{relArticle.url}}#disqus_thread)

######  {{article.DatePublishedString}}

[ {{article.Topic.Topic}} ](/topics/{{article.Topic.Topic}})
{{article.Topic.Topic}}

##  {{article.Title}}

[ ]({{author.Url}})

######  by [ {{author.FullName}}  ,  ](author.Url)

{{article.BodyText}}

###  Republish This Article

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License, except for material where copyright is reserved by a party other than
FEE.

Please do not edit the piece, ensure that you attribute the author and mention
that this article was originally published on FEE.org

  * [ About ](https://fee.org/about)
  * [ Staff ](https://fee.org/about/staff)
  * [ Faculty Network ](https://fee.org/about/faculty)
  * [ Alumni Network ](https://fee.org/alumni)
  * [ Board of Trustees ](https://fee.org/about/board-of-trustees)

  * [ Contact ](https://fee.org/about/contact)
  * [ Email Newsletter ](https://fee.org/resources/fee-daily)
  * [ FEE Store ](https://store.fee.org)
  * [ Freeman Archive ](https://fee.org/the-freeman)
  * [ Historical Archives ](https://history.fee.org)

  * [ Submissions ](https://fee.org/articles/submissions)
  * [ Job Openings ](https://fee.org/about/job-openings)
  * [ Annual Reports ](https://fee.org/about/annual-reports)
  * [ Financial Data ](https://fee.org/about/financial-data)
  * [ Privacy Policy ](https://fee.org/about/privacy-policy)

[ ![](/images/logo-footer.png?v=1) ](https://fee.org/)

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License, except for material where copyright is reserved by a party other than
FEE.

[ Edit ](https://admin.fee.org/umbraco/#/content/content/edit/110724)

![](https://d5nxst8fruw4z.cloudfront.net/atrk.gif?account=ftPtl1aAFUE0uW)

![Clicky](//in.getclicky.com/100931785ns.gif)

![Quantcast](//pixel.quantserve.com/pixel/p-Uxh2BtvCSfcff.gif)

![](https://www.facebook.com/tr?id=1596986373929885&ev=PageView&noscript=1)

![](//googleads.g.doubleclick.net/pagead/viewthroughconversion/853704134/?guid=ON&script=0)

